Adding ML-Genetic Algorithm example (#2981)
ansys/pymapdl: doc/source/examples/extended_examples/hpc/hpc_ml_ga.rst

.. literalinclude:: ml_ga_beam.py
    :language: python
    :start-at: Importing packages
    :end-at: print(pool)

Deflection target
=================

Because this is a demonstration example, the target displacement is calculated 
using the beam function itself with a force of 22840 :math:`N/cm^2`.

.. literalinclude:: ml_ga_beam.py
    :language: python
    :start-at: ## Define deflection target
    :end-at: print(f"Setting target to {target_displacement} for force {force}")

Genetic algorithm model
=======================

Introduction
------------

You use the `PyGAD <pygad_docs_>`_ library to configure the genetic algorithm.

.. epigraph::

    PyGAD is an open source Python library for building the genetic algorithm and optimizing machine learning algorithms.

    PyGAD supports different types of crossover, mutation, and parent selection operators.
    PyGAD allows different types of problems to be optimized using the genetic algorithm
    by customizing the fitness function. It works with both single-objective and
    multi-objective optimization problems.

>     From PyGAD - Python Genetic Algorithm! - https://pygad.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Author: ```suggestion
    From PyGAD - Python Genetic Algorithm - https://pygad.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
```

.. _hpc_ml_ga_example:

==============================

> Genetic Algorithms and PyMAPDL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Genetic algorithms and PyMAPDL
```
Sentence case headings per our style guide (Google developer documentation style guide).

==============================

> This example aims also to show how to use PyMAPDL in an HPC cluster, to 
> take advantage of multiple MAPDL instances to calculate each of the
> genetic algorithm population solution.
> To manage multiple MAPDL instances, it is recommended to use the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to use PyMAPDL in an HPC cluster to 
take advantage of multiple MAPDL instances to calculate each of the
genetic algorithm population solutions.
To manage multiple MAPDL instances, you should use the
```

> :py:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class which allows you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:py:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class, which allows you
```

> to run multiple jobs on the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to run multiple jobs in the background.
```

Introduction
============

Genetic algorithms are optimization techniques inspired by the principles of natural
selection and genetics. They are used to find solutions to complex problems by mimicking
the process of natural selection to evolve potential solutions over successive generations.
In a genetic algorithm, a population of candidate solutions (chromosomes) undergoes a
series of operations, including selection, crossover, and mutation, to produce new
generations of solutions. The fittest chromosomes, which best satisfy the problem
constraints and objectives, are more likely to be selected for reproduction, thus
gradually improving the overall quality of solutions over time. Genetic algorithms are
particularly useful for solving problems where traditional methods are impractical or
inefficient, such as optimization, search, and machine learning tasks. They find
applications in various fields, including engineering, economics, biology, and computer science.

Problem definition
==================

> In this example, a generic algorithm is used to calculate the force
> required for a double clamped beam to deform a specific amount in its
> center.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to use a generic algorithm to calculate the force
required for a double-clamped beam to deform a specific amount in its
center.
```
Use active voice.

The beam model is the same as :ref:`ref_mapdl_beam`.

> It is made of ``BEAM188`` elements which span for 2.2 meters,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is made of ``BEAM188`` elements that span for 2.2 meters,
```

and it fully clamped at both ends.

> The PyMAPDL beam model is defined in ``calculate_beam`` as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PyMAPDL beam model is defined in the ``calculate_beam()`` method as follows:
```

        mapdl.mp("PRXY", 1, 0.27)  # Poisson's ratio

        # Beam properties in centimeters
        sec_num = 1
        mapdl.sectype(sec_num, "BEAM", "I", "ISection", 3)
        mapdl.secoffset("CENT")
        mapdl.secdata(15, 15, 29, 2, 2, 1)  # dimensions are in centimeters

        # Setting FEM model
        mapdl.n(1, 0, 0, 0)
        mapdl.n(12, 110, 0, 0)
        mapdl.n(23, 220, 0, 0)
        mapdl.fill(1, 12, 10)
        mapdl.fill(12, 23, 10)

        for node in mapdl.mesh.nnum[:-1]:
            mapdl.e(node, node + 1)

        # Define the boundary conditions
        # Allow movement only in the X and Z direction
        for const in ["UX", "UY", "ROTX", "ROTZ"]:
            mapdl.d("all", const)

        # constrain just nodes 1 and 23 in the Z direction
        mapdl.d(1, "UZ")
        mapdl.d(23, "UZ")

        # apply a -Z force at node 12
        mapdl.f(12, "FZ", force[0])

        # run the static analysis
        mapdl.run("/solu")
        mapdl.antype("static")
        mapdl.solve()

        # Extracting data
        UZ = mapdl.post_processing.nodal_displacement("Z")
        UZ_node_12 = UZ[12]

        return UZ_node_12

> As it can be seen, this function returns the control parameter for this model, which is the displacement at the Z-direction on the node 12 (``UZ_node_12``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function returns the control parameter for the model, which is the displacement at the Z-direction on the node 12 (``UZ_node_12``).
```

Setting MAPDL pool
==================

> The genetic algorithms are expensive regarding the amount of calculation needed to reach an optimal solution. As seen before, many simulations must be performed to select, crossover, and mutate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Genetic algorithms are expensive in regard to the amount of calculations needed to reach an optimal solution. As shown earlier, many simulations must be performed to select, cross over, and mutate
```
Two words for cross over as a verb, one word as a verb.

Author: I guess you mean "one word as noun"?

all the chromosomes across all the populations.
For this reason, to speed up the process, it is desirable to have as many MAPDL instances as possible, so
each one can calculate one chromosome fit function.

> To manage multiple MAPDL instances, the best approach is to use :py:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage multiple MAPDL instances, the best approach is to use the :py:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class.
```

.. code-block:: python

    from ansys.mapdl.core import MapdlPool

    # Starting pool
    # Number of instances should be equal to number of CPUs
    # as set later in the ``sbatch`` command
    pool = MapdlPool(n_instances=10)
    print(pool)

Define deflection target
========================

Because this is a demonstration example, the target displacement is calculated 

> using the beam function itself using a force of 22840 :math:`N/cm^2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using the beam function itself with a force of 22840 :math:`N/cm^2`.
```
Edit to not having "using" twice.

.. code-block:: python

    # Calculate target displacement
    mapdl = pool[0]
    force = 22840  # N/cm2
    target_displacement = calculate_beam(pool[0], [force])
    print(f"Setting target to {target_displacement} for force {force}")

Genetic algorithm model
=======================

Introduction
------------

> The library `PyGAD <pygad_docs_>`_ is used to configure the genetic algorithm.::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use the `PyGAD <pygad_docs_>`_ library to configure the genetic algorithm.::
```
Will the ".::" used at the end of the sentence render in the documentation correctly? I think it will render as ".:" instead of concluding only with the period.

Author: It should be rendered the text after as quotes or something like that.

>     PyGAD is an open-source Python library for building the genetic algorithm and optimizing machine learning algorithms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    PyGAD is an open source Python library for building the genetic algorithm and optimizing machine learning algorithms.
```
Style guide says open source never has a hyphen, even when used as a compound adjective.

    PyGAD supports different types of crossover, mutation, and parent selection operators.
    PyGAD allows different types of problems to be optimized using the genetic algorithm
    by customizing the fitness function. It works with both single-objective and
    multi-objective optimization problems.

Configuration
-------------

To configure the genetic algorithm, the following code is used:

.. code-block:: python

    # Setting GA model
    sol_per_pop = 20
    num_generations = 10
    num_parents_mating = 20
    num_genes = 1  # equal to the size of inputs/outputs.
    parallel_processing = ["thread", len(pool)]  # Number of parallel workers

    # Initial guess limits
    init_range_low = 10000
    init_range_high = 30000
    gene_type = int  # limit to ints

    # Extra configuration
    # https://blog.derlin.ch/genetic-algorithms-with-pygad
    parent_selection_type = "rws"
    keep_parents = 0  # No keeping parents.
    mutation_percent_genes = 30
    mutation_probability = 0.5

> From the above code, the most import parameters are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding code, the most import parameters are:
```
Style guide says not to use positional indicators like above and below (primarily because in a PDF they might be incorrect).

> * **sol_per_pop**: Number of solutions (chromosomes) within the population.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``sol_per_pop``: Number of solutions (chromosomes) within the population.
```
Use double backticks to tag as code entities. This will remove all the style check errors.

> * **num_generations**:  Number of genes in the solution/chromosome.

Author: ```suggestion
* ``num_generations``:  Number of genes in the solution/chromosome.
```

>   In this case, because only one parameter is the simulated (deflection Z at node 12),

Reviewer: ''.. is the simulated"? should it be "is simulated"?

Author: You are right.

>   In this case, because only one parameter is the simulated (deflection Z at node 12),

Author: ```suggestion
  In this case, because only one parameter is simulated (deflection Z at node 12),
```

  this value is 1.
* **num_parents_mating**: Number of solutions to be selected as parents.

> * **parent_selection_type**: The parent selection type. In this example, the ``rws`` type
>   (for roulette wheel selection) is used. For more information regarding parent selection type,
>   visit `Genetic algorithms with PyGAD: selection, crossover, mutation by Lucy Linder <ga_article_>`_ article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ``parent_selection_type``:  Parent selection type. This example uses the ``rws`` type
  (for roulette wheel selection). For more information on parent selection type,
  see `Genetic algorithms with PyGAD: selection, crossover, mutation <ga_article_>`_
  by Lucy Linder.
```

* **parallel_processing**: This parameter set the number of parallel workers for the genetic

>   algorithm and how these workers are created. They could be created as a ``"thread"`` or ``"process"``. In our example, these workers are created as thread and their amount is equal to the number of instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  algorithm and how these workers are created. They can be created as a ``"thread"`` or ``"process"``. The example creates the workers as threads, and the amount is equal to the number of instances.
```

Helper functions
----------------

> Additionally, for printing purposes, several helper functions are going to be defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, for printing purposes, several helper functions are defined:
```

.. code-block:: python

    import numpy as np

    # To calculate the fitness criteria model solution and target displacement
    def calculate_fitness_criteria(model_output):
        # we add a constant (target/1E8) here to avoid dividing by zero
        return 1.0 / (
            1 * (np.abs(model_output - target_displacement) + target_displacement / 1e10)
        )

    # To calculate the error in the model solution with respect to the target displacement.
    def calculate_error(model_output):
        # Just for visualization purposes.
        return 100.0 * (model_output - target_displacement) / target_displacement

    # This function is executed at the end of the fitness stage (all chromosomes are calculated),
    # and it is used to do some pretty printing.
    def on_fitness(pyga_instance, solution):
        # This attribute does not exist. It will be created after the GA class has been initialized.
        pyga_instance.igen += 1
        print(f"\nGENERATION {pyga_instance.igen}")
        print("=============")

Fitness function
----------------

> Now all the helper functions are defined, the fitness function can be defined:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
after all helper functions are defined, the fitness function can be defined:
```

.. code-block:: python

    def fitness_func(ga_instance, solution, solution_idx):
        # Querying a free MAPDL instance
        mapdl, i = pool.next_available(return_index=True)
        mapdl.locked = True
        mapdl._busy = True

        # Perform chromosome simulation
        model_output = calculate_beam(mapdl, solution)

>         # Releasing MAPDL instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Release MAPDL instance
```

        mapdl.locked = False
        mapdl._busy = False

        # Calculate errors and criteria
        error_ = calculate_error(model_output)
        fitness_criteria = calculate_fitness_criteria(model_output)

>         # Pretty print at each chromosome solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Print at each chromosome solution
```
It doesn't seem like including the "pretty" part is necessary. Sorry if it is!

>         # The 'port' is printed so it can be observed how the GA is using all MAPDL instances

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Print the port to observe how the GA is using all MAPDL instances
```

        print(
            f"MAPDL instance {i}(port: {mapdl.port})\tInput: {solution[0]:0.1f}\tOutputs: {model_output:0.7f}\tError: {error_:0.3f}%\tFitness criteria: {fitness_criteria:0.6f}"
        )

        return fitness_criteria

> PyMAPDL and PyGAD evaluate each chromosome using this function in order to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PyMAPDL and PyGAD evaluate each chromosome using this function to
```

evaluate how fit is it, and assign survival probability.

Mutation function
-----------------

To further demonstrate `PyGAD <pygad_docs_>`_ capabilities, in this example a custom mutation
function is used.

This custom mutation function does two things:

> * **To each chromosomes** add a random value between the maximum and minimum of the population.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **To each chromosomes**, it adds a random value between the maximum and minimum of the population.
```

> * **To two random chromosomes** additionally add a random percentage of the mean across all the
>   population between -10% and 10%. The random chromosomes are selected independently.
>   This is to reduce the possibility of the function to converge to a local minimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **To two random chromosomes**, it additionally adds a random percentage of the mean across all the
  population between -10% and 10%. The random chromosomes are selected independently.
  This is to reduce the possibility of the function to converge to a local minimal.
```

.. code-block:: python

    def mutation_func(offspring, ga_instance):
        average = offspring.mean()
        max_value = offspring.max() - average
        min_value = offspring.min() - average

        min_value = min([min_value, max_value, -1])
        max_value = max([min_value, max_value, +1])

        offspring[:, 0] += np.random.randint(min_value, high=max_value, size=offspring.size)

        for i in range(2):
            random_spring_idx = np.random.choice(range(offspring.shape[1]))
            sign = np.random.choice([-1, 1])
            offspring[random_spring_idx, 0] += sign * average * (0.1 * np.random.random())

        return offspring

> Assembling model
> ----------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Assemble model
--------------
```

Finally, the GA class is used to assemble all the parameters and functions

> created to run the simulation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created to run the simulation:
```

.. code-block:: python

    ga_instance = pygad.GA(
        # Main options
        sol_per_pop=sol_per_pop,
        num_generations=num_generations,
        num_parents_mating=num_parents_mating,
        num_genes=num_genes,
        fitness_func=fitness_func,
        parallel_processing=parallel_processing,
        random_seed=2,  # to get reproducible results
        #
        # Mutation
        mutation_percent_genes=mutation_percent_genes,
        mutation_type=mutation_func,
        mutation_probability=mutation_probability,
        #
        # Parents
        keep_parents=keep_parents,
        parent_selection_type=parent_selection_type,
        #
        # Helpers
        on_fitness=on_fitness,
        gene_type=gene_type,
        init_range_low=init_range_low,
        init_range_high=init_range_high,
    )

    ga_instance.igen = 0  # To count the number of generations

Run simulation
==============

> Once the model is set, the simulation can be started by using ``run()`` method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the model is set, use the ``run()`` method to start the simulation:
```

.. code-block:: python

    import time

    t0 = time.perf_counter()

    ga_instance.run()

    t1 = time.perf_counter()
    print(f"Time spent (minutes): {(t1-t0)/60}")

Plot convergence
================

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    ga_instance.plot_fitness(label=["Applied force"], save_dir=os.getcwd())

    solution, solution_fitness, solution_idx = ga_instance.best_solution(
        ga_instance.last_generation_fitness
    )

    print(f"Parameters of the best solution : {solution[0]}")
    print(f"Fitness value of the best solution = {solution_fitness}")

> Storing the model result
> ========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Store the model result
======================
```

The model can be stored in a file for later reuse:

.. code-block:: python

    from datetime import datetime

>     # Saving the GA instance.
>     # The filename to which the instance is saved. The name is without extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Save the GA instance.
    # In the filename to save the instance to, do not specify the extension.
```

    formatted_date = datetime.now().strftime("%d-%m-%y")
    filename = f"ml_ga_beam_{formatted_date}"
    ga_instance.save(filename=filename)

> Use the following code to load the model:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Load the model:
```

.. code-block:: python

    # Loading the saved GA instance.
    loaded_ga_instance = pygad.load(filename=filename)

    # Plot fitness function again
    loaded_ga_instance.plot_fitness()

Run the simulation on an HPC cluster using SLURM
================================================

> In the previous steps, the PyMAPDL script has been created.
> The final file can be found in this link
> :download:`ml_ga_beam.py <ml_ga_beam.py>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous steps create the PyMAPDL script.
To see the file. you can click this link
:download:`ml_ga_beam.py <ml_ga_beam.py>`.
```

> To run the above script in an HPC environment, you need to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run the preceding script in an HPC environment, you must
```

> create a Python environment, install the packages and run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a Python environment, install the packages, and the run
```

> the mentioned script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this script.
```

> 1. Login into your HPC cluster.
>    For more information visit :ref:`ref_hpc_login`
> 
> 2. Create a virtual environment which is accessible from
>    the compute nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Log into your HPC cluster.
   For more information, see :ref:`ref_hpc_login`

2. Create a virtual environment that is accessible from
   the compute nodes.
```

   .. code-block:: console

      user@machine:~$ python3 -m venv /home/user/.venv

   If you have problems when creating the virtual environment
   or accessing it from the compute nodes,

>    visit :ref:`ref_hpc_pymapdl_job`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   see :ref:`ref_hpc_pymapdl_job`.
```

3. Install the requirements for this example given in

>    :download:`requirements.txt <requirements.txt>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :download:`requirements.txt <requirements.txt>` file.
```

4. Create the bash script ``job.sh``:

   .. code-block:: bash

      #!/bin/bash
      #SBATCH --job-name=ml_ga_beam
      #SBATCH --time=01:00:00
      #SBATCH --time=1:00:00
      #SBATCH --partition=%your_partition_name%
      #SBATCH --output=output_%j.txt
      #SBATCH --error=error_%j.txt

      # Commands to run
      echo "Running simulation..."
      source /home/user/.venv/bin/activate  # Activate venv
      python ml_ga_beam.py
      echo "Done"

   Remember to replace ``%your_partition_name%`` with your cluster
   partition.

> 5. Run the bash script using `sbatch <slurm_sbatch_>`_ command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run the bash script using the `sbatch <slurm_sbatch_>`_ command:
```

   .. code-block:: console
    
      sbatch --nodes=1 --ntasks-per-node=10 job.sh

   The preceding command allocates 10 cores for the job.
   For optimal performance, this value should be higher than the number

>    of MAPDL instances that
>    :py:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` is creating.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   of MAPDL instances that the
   :py:class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` instance is creating.
```

In a genetic algorithm, a population of candidate solutions (chromosomes) undergoes a
series of operations, including selection, crossover, and mutation, to produce new
generations of solutions. The fittest chromosomes, which best satisfy the problem
constraints and objectives, are more likely to be selected for reproduction, thus
gradually improving the overall quality of solutions over time. Genetic algorithms are
particularly useful for solving problems where traditional methods are impractical or
inefficient, such as optimization, search, and machine learning tasks. They find
applications in various fields, including engineering, economics, biology, and computer science.

Problem definition
==================

This example shows how to use a generic algorithm to calculate the force
required for a double-clamped beam to deform a specific amount in its
center.

The beam model is the same as :ref:`ref_mapdl_beam`.
It is made of ``BEAM188`` elements that span for 2.2 meters,
and it fully clamped at both ends.

The PyMAPDL beam model is defined in the ``calculate_beam()`` function as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    def calculate_beam(mapdl, force):

>         # Initializing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Initialize
```
Simple verb form is preferred.

        mapdl.clear()
        mapdl.prep7()

        # Define an I-beam
        mapdl.et(1, "BEAM188")
        mapdl.keyopt(1, 4, 1)  # transverse shear stress output

        # Material properties
        mapdl.mp("EX", 1, 2e7)  # N/cm2
        mapdl.mp("PRXY", 1, 0.27)  # Poisson's ratio

        # Beam properties in centimeters
        sec_num = 1
        mapdl.sectype(sec_num, "BEAM", "I", "ISection", 3)
        mapdl.secoffset("CENT")
        mapdl.secdata(15, 15, 29, 2, 2, 1)  # dimensions are in centimeters

>         # Setting FEM model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Set FEM model
```
Simple verb is preferred.

        mapdl.n(1, 0, 0, 0)
        mapdl.n(12, 110, 0, 0)
        mapdl.n(23, 220, 0, 0)
        mapdl.fill(1, 12, 10)
        mapdl.fill(12, 23, 10)

        for node in mapdl.mesh.nnum[:-1]:
            mapdl.e(node, node + 1)

        # Define the boundary conditions
        # Allow movement only in the X and Z direction
        for const in ["UX", "UY", "ROTX", "ROTZ"]:
            mapdl.d("all", const)

>         # constrain just nodes 1 and 23 in the Z direction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Constrain just nodes 1 and 23 in the Z direction
```
Because you tend to capitalize the initial word of your comments, all of them should be formatted like this.

        mapdl.d(1, "UZ")
        mapdl.d(23, "UZ")

        # apply a -Z force at node 12
        mapdl.f(12, "FZ", force[0])

>         # run the static analysis

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Run the static analysis
```

        mapdl.run("/solu")
        mapdl.antype("static")
        mapdl.solve()

>         # Extracting data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        # Extract data
```

        UZ = mapdl.post_processing.nodal_displacement("Z")
        UZ_node_12 = UZ[12]

        return UZ_node_12

This function returns the control parameter for the model, which is the displacement at the Z-direction on the node 12 (``UZ_node_12``).

Setting MAPDL pool
==================

Genetic algorithms are expensive in regard to the amount of calculations needed to reach an optimal solution. As shown earlier, many simulations must be performed to select, cross over, and mutate
all the chromosomes across all the populations.

> For this reason, to speed up the process, it is desirable to have as many MAPDL instances as possible, so
> each one can calculate one chromosome fit function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, to speed up the process, it is desirable to have as many MAPDL instances as possible so that each one can calculate one chromosome fit function.
```

To manage multiple MAPDL instances, the best approach is to use the :class:`~ansys.mapdl.core.pool.MapdlPool` class.

.. code-block:: python

    from ansys.mapdl.core import MapdlPool

>     # Starting pool

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # Start pool
```

    # Number of instances should be equal to number of CPUs
    # as set later in the ``sbatch`` command
    pool = MapdlPool(n_instances=10)
    print(pool)

> Define deflection target
> ========================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deflection target
=================
```
Again, changing to noun string to match other headings at this level.

        mapdl.locked = False
        mapdl._busy = False

        # Calculate errors and criteria
        error_ = calculate_error(model_output)
        fitness_criteria = calculate_fitness_criteria(model_output)

        # Print at each chromosome solution
        # Print the port to observe how the GA is using all MAPDL instances
        print(
            f"MAPDL instance {i}(port: {mapdl.port})\tInput: {solution[0]:0.1f}\tOutputs: {model_output:0.7f}\tError: {error_:0.3f}%\tFitness criteria: {fitness_criteria:0.6f}"
        )

        return fitness_criteria

PyMAPDL and PyGAD evaluate each chromosome using this function to
evaluate how fit is it and assign survival probability.

Mutation function
-----------------

To further demonstrate `PyGAD <pygad_docs_>`_ capabilities, this example uses a custom mutation
function.

This custom mutation function does two things:

* **To each chromosomes**, it adds a random value between the maximum and minimum of the population.
* **To two random chromosomes**, it additionally adds a random percentage of the mean across all the
  population between -10% and 10%. The random chromosomes are selected independently.

>   This is to reduce the possibility of the function to converge to a local minimal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This is to reduce the possibility of the function converging to a local minimal.
```

.. code-block:: python

    def mutation_func(offspring, ga_instance):
        average = offspring.mean()
        max_value = offspring.max() - average
        min_value = offspring.min() - average

        min_value = min([min_value, max_value, -1])
        max_value = max([min_value, max_value, +1])

        offspring[:, 0] += np.random.randint(min_value, high=max_value, size=offspring.size)

        for i in range(2):
            random_spring_idx = np.random.choice(range(offspring.shape[1]))
            sign = np.random.choice([-1, 1])
            offspring[random_spring_idx, 0] += sign * average * (0.1 * np.random.random())

        return offspring

Assemble model
--------------

> Finally, the GA class is used to assemble all the parameters and functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the GA class to assemble all the parameters and functions
```

created to run the simulation:

.. code-block:: python

    ga_instance = pygad.GA(
        # Main options
        sol_per_pop=sol_per_pop,
        num_generations=num_generations,
        num_parents_mating=num_parents_mating,
        num_genes=num_genes,
        fitness_func=fitness_func,
        parallel_processing=parallel_processing,
        random_seed=2,  # to get reproducible results
        #
        # Mutation
        mutation_percent_genes=mutation_percent_genes,
        mutation_type=mutation_func,
        mutation_probability=mutation_probability,
        #
        # Parents
        keep_parents=keep_parents,
        parent_selection_type=parent_selection_type,
        #
        # Helpers
        on_fitness=on_fitness,
        gene_type=gene_type,
        init_range_low=init_range_low,
        init_range_high=init_range_high,
    )

    ga_instance.igen = 0  # To count the number of generations

> Run simulation
> ==============

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simulation
==========
```

Once the model is set, use the ``run()`` method to start the simulation:

.. code-block:: python

    import time

    t0 = time.perf_counter()

    ga_instance.run()

    t1 = time.perf_counter()
    print(f"Time spent (minutes): {(t1-t0)/60}")

Plot convergence
================

.. code-block:: python

    import os

    ga_instance.plot_fitness(label=["Applied force"], save_dir=os.getcwd())

    solution, solution_fitness, solution_idx = ga_instance.best_solution(
        ga_instance.last_generation_fitness
    )

    print(f"Parameters of the best solution : {solution[0]}")
    print(f"Fitness value of the best solution = {solution_fitness}")

> Store the model result
> ======================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Model storage
==============
```

> The model can be stored in a file for later reuse:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can store the model in a file for later reuse:
```

.. code-block:: python

    from datetime import datetime

    # Save the GA instance.
    # In the filename to save the instance to, do not specify the extension.
    formatted_date = datetime.now().strftime("%d-%m-%y")
    filename = f"ml_ga_beam_{formatted_date}"
    ga_instance.save(filename=filename)

Load the model:

.. code-block:: python

    # Load the saved GA instance.
    loaded_ga_instance = pygad.load(filename=filename)

    # Plot fitness function again
    loaded_ga_instance.plot_fitness()

> Run the simulation on an HPC cluster using SLURM
> ================================================
> 
> The previous steps create the PyMAPDL script.
> To see the file. you can click this link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simulation on an HPC cluster using SLURM
========================================

The previous steps create the PyMAPDL script.
To see the file, you can click this link
```

:download:`ml_ga_beam.py <ml_ga_beam.py>`.

To run the preceding script in an HPC environment, you must

> create a Python environment, install the packages, and the run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a Python environment, install the packages, and then run
```

this script.

1. Log into your HPC cluster.
   For more information, see :ref:`ref_hpc_login`

2. Create a virtual environment that is accessible from
   the compute nodes.

   .. code-block:: console

      user@machine:~$ python3 -m venv /home/user/.venv

   If you have problems when creating the virtual environment
   or accessing it from the compute nodes,
   see :ref:`ref_hpc_pymapdl_job`.

> 3. Install the requirements for this example given in
>    :download:`requirements.txt <requirements.txt>` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install the requirements for this example from the
   :download:`requirements.txt <requirements.txt>` file.
```
